1. OBJECT 

1. What is an object?

An object is an instance of a class.
It is a real-world entity that has state (data) and behavior (methods).

2. What does an object represent?

It represents real-world things like car, student, bank account, etc.
Each object has its own values.

3. How do you create an object in Java?

Using the new keyword.
Example:
Student s = new Student();

4. What does an object contain?

An object contains:

Variables (state/data)

Methods (behavior/functions)

5. Can we create multiple objects from one class?

Yes.
Each object will have separate data but same structure.

6. Where is memory allocated for an object?

Memory is allocated in heap memory when we use the new keyword.

7. What is object reference?

It is a variable that stores the address of an object in memory.
Without reference, we cannot access the object.


2. CLASS 


1. What is a class?

A class is a blueprint or template used to create objects.
It defines data and methods.

2. Why is class important?

Because it groups related data and functions together.
It helps in organizing code properly.

3. What are the components of a class?

Variables (fields)

Methods

Constructors

Blocks (optional)

4. Does a class occupy memory?

No.
Memory is allocated only when an object of that class is created.

5. Can a class have multiple methods?

Yes.
A class can have many methods depending on requirement.

6. Can we create a class without methods?

Yes.
But it may not be useful if it does nothing.

7. What is a constructor?

A constructor is a special method used to initialize object values.
It has the same name as the class and no return type.


3. INHERITANCE 


1. What is inheritance?

Inheritance is a mechanism where one class acquires properties and methods of another class.
It promotes code reuse.

2. Which keyword is used for inheritance in Java?

extends

Example:
class Dog extends Animal

3. What is a parent class?

The class whose properties and methods are inherited.
Also called superclass.

4. What is a child class?

The class that inherits from another class.
Also called subclass.

5. Why do we use inheritance?

Code reuse

Reduce duplication

Easy maintenance

Improves performance

6. Does Java support multiple inheritance with classes?

No.
But it supports multiple inheritance using interfaces.

7. What is multilevel inheritance?

When a class inherits from another class, and that class inherits from another.
Example: A → B → C


4. ABSTRACTION 


1. What is abstraction?

Abstraction means hiding internal implementation and showing only important details to the user.

2. Why do we use abstraction?

To reduce complexity

To increase security

To focus only on required functionality

3. How is abstraction achieved in Java?

Abstract class

Interface

4. Can we create object of abstract class?

No.
Because abstract class may contain incomplete methods.

5. What is an abstract method?

A method without body.
It must be implemented in child class.

6. Give real-life example of abstraction.

ATM machine – we use it without knowing internal working.

7. What keyword is used for abstract class?

abstract


5. ENCAPSULATION


1. What is encapsulation?

Encapsulation is wrapping data and methods into a single unit (class) and restricting direct access to data.

2. Why is encapsulation important?

Protects data

Improves security

Makes code maintainable

3. How is encapsulation achieved?

By making variables private and providing public getter and setter methods.

4. What is data hiding?

Data hiding means preventing direct access to variables from outside the class.

5. Which access modifier is used in encapsulation?

private for variables.

6. What are getter methods?

Methods used to return the value of private variables.

Example:
getName()

7. What are setter methods?

Methods used to update private variable values.

Example:
setName(String name)